Fix the expected return value of authentication plugins "verify" function (#271)
kuzzleio/documentation: src/guide/1/essentials/database-mappings/index.md

---
layout: full.html.hbs
title: Define database mapping
order: 400
---

# Database mappings

> With Elasticsearch, it is possible to define mappings for collections. These mappings allows you to configure the way Elasticsearch will handle these collections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With Elasticsearch, it is possible to define mappings for collections. These mappings allow you to configure the way Elasticsearch will handle these collections.
```

There are 3 root fields for mapping configuration:
 - [properties]({{ site_base_path}}guide/1/essentials/database-mappings/#properties-types-definition): collection types definition
 - [dynamic]({{ site_base_path}}guide/1/essentials/database-mappings/#dynamic-mapping-policy): dynamic mapping policy against new fields
 - [_meta]({{ site_base_path}}guide/1/essentials/database-mappings/#collection-metadata): collection metadata

The following API methods can be used to modify these mappings:
 - [collection:create]({{ site_base_path }}api/1/controller-collection/create/)
 - [collection:updateMapping]({{ site_base_path }}api/1/controller-collection/update-mapping/)

---

## Properties types definition

> The definition of the types of fields that will be inserted in a collection allows Elasticsearch to optimize the indexing of your data for future searches.  

Reviewer: I'm not entirely sure about the last part of the following suggestion: untyped fields are not indexable at all, are they?

```suggestion
The field type definitions that will be inserted in a collection allow Elasticsearch to index your data for future searches.  
```

    "distance": { "type": "integer" },
    "position": { "type": "geo_point" },
    "driver": {
      "properties": {
        "name": { "type": "keyword" }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

This mapping is then passed in the body to the methods [collection:create]({{ site_base_path }}api/1/controller-collection/create/) or [collection:updateMapping]({{ site_base_path }}api/1/controller-collection/update-mapping/).

```bash
# First create a collection yellow-taxi in the nyc-open-data index
curl -X PUT -d '{"properties":{"category":{"type":"keyword"},"distance":{"type":"integer"},"position":{"type":"geo_point"},"driver":{"properties":{"name":{"type":"keyword"}}}}}' -H "Content-Type: application/json" "http://localhost:7512/nyc-open-data/yellow-taxi?pretty"

# Then create the desired document
curl -X POST -d '{"category":"limousine","distance":120990,"position":{"lat":27.7304,"lon":85.328467},"driver":{"name":"liia meh ry"}}' -H "Content-Type: application/json" "http://localhost:7512/nyc-open-data/yellow-taxi/_create?pretty"
```

<div class="alert alert-warning">
Because of the way Elasticsearch manages collections, mappings are shared between indexes.
<br/>

> This means that if I have an index <code>nyc-open-data</code>, two collections <code>yellow-taxi</code> and <code>green-taxi</code> and a field <code>name</code> with type <code>keyword</code> in the collection <code>yellow-taxi</code>, I couldn't have a field <code>name</code> with a different type in the collection <code>green-taxi</code>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means that if I have an index <code>nyc-open-data</code>, two collections <code>yellow-taxi</code> and <code>green-taxi</code> and a field <code>name</code> with type <code>keyword</code> in the collection <code>yellow-taxi</code>, then I can't have a field <code>name</code> with a different type in the collection <code>green-taxi</code>.
```
